

What is programming language?
    A.  Set of instructions for the computer.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
    A.  Java Development Kit(JDK)
        javac: This utility is used to compile Java source code into Java bytecode.
        rmic: This utility creates skeletons and stubs for use in Remote Method Invocation (RMI).
        jar: This compression utility aggregates a multitude of files into a single Java ARchive (JAR) file. The jar utility uses a standard compression algorithm used by all of the most common zip utilities.
        javadoc: This utility can examine the names of classes and the methods contained within a class, as well as consume special annotations in order to create application programming interface (API) documentation for Java code.
        wsgen: This generates various artifacts required by Java API for XML Web Services (JAX-WS).
        javap: This utility disassembles class files, generating information about the methods, properties and attributes of a given compiled component.

What is IDE?
    A.  Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
        It is a software that provides us basic tools to write, test, run and debug code.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
    A.  Eclipse, IntelliJ.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
    A.  Source code -> compiled by java compiler -> creates a bytecode
        -> gets loaded by JVM -> JVM translates the code to machine code.

what is class?
    A.  A blueprint of an object.

What is object?
    A.  An instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
    A.  main()

Why main is static?
    A.  Can be invoked without having an instance of the class it's in.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
    A.  Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
    A.  path is location of executables.
        classpath is the location of all .class file which is created by the java compiler.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
    A.  Interface class can declare but not define methods
        whereas Abstract class is a mix between between concrete class and and Interface.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it?
    A.  Yes but you cannot be an object of that Interface or Abstract class. It must reference a concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
    A.  Declaring variables, classes and methods to be either private, protected or public.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
    A.  OOP is Object Oriented Programming. There are four features:
            1) Encapsulation: hiding data.
            2) Inheritance: a class can inherit properties from another class.
            3) Polymorphism: object behaves differently depending on what its referenced to.
            4) Abstraction: implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
    A.  A package contains a set of classes and interfaces.
        java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
    A.  API is Application Programming Interface.
        String, List, Set, ArrayList, Map, Collections.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
    A.  No. Multiple inheritance can lead to issues. Instead Java has interfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
    A.  Method overloading chooses a method amongst those with the same name
        by the number of parameters is being used. It happens during compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
    A.  Exception happens when an error is caught.
        Exceptions are handled by try-catch blocks.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
    A.  Static keyword allows a variable and method to be called by the class.
        You do not need to instantiate an object to call a static method. You
        can do Class.method();

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
    A.  final does not allow a variable to be changed or a method to be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
    A.  final: A variable cannot be changed or a method cannot be overridden.
        finally: A block that will always be executed. Usually occurs after try-catch blocks.
        finalize: a method that can be called to collect garbage before the automatic garbage collector.

What is a constructor?
    A.  Initializes an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
    A.  Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
    A.  Default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
    A.  Refers to the current object being reference to.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
    A.  Calls the parent class' constructors or methods.
        You can call the parent's constructor by super(..,..)

What is JVM stand for ?
    A.  Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
    A.  Yes.

What version of java are you using?
    A.  1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
    A.  Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
    A.  JDK is Java Development Kit and it includes JVM.
        JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
    A.  JRE is used to provide runtime environment. It is the implementation of JVM.
        JDK contains JRE + development tools.

What is compile time and run time?
    A.  Runtime is during the time the application is running.
        Compile time is when the source code is being compiled.

What is heap?
    A.  A portion of memory where dynamically allocated data resides.

How java manage it's memory?
    A.  All objects in Java are a reference to something so most are in the heap.
        There is also an automated garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
    A.  Strings are immutable.
        StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable.
        One is synchronized and the other is not.

What is Singleton class?
    A.  Singleton class allows only one instance of that class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
    A.  Serialization converts an object into bytes.
        Deserialization  creates an object from a series of bytes.

when to use transient variable in java?
    A.  Java transient keyword is used in serialization.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
    A.  while loops checks condition first before performing.
        Do-While loops executes once before checking its condition.

What is Enum?
    A.  Class of constants.

What is Iterator?
    A.  An object that can traverse through a collection.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
    A.  None. They're the same.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
    A.  They are defined in the String pool which can be used by other String objects.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
    A.  Calling another constructor within a constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
    A.  Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments. 
        Parallel Garbage Collector is used for multi-threaded environments  .

What is JIT stands for?
    A.  Just In Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
    A.  Java objects reside in the heap.
        Garbage collection is automatic and will delete unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
    A.  No.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
    A.  Stack contains the memory location of an object and the memory location
        is in heap.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
    A.  Reflection allows an executing Java program to examine itself and
        manipulate properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
    A.  Executing multiple threads in parallel. Allows multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
    A.  Synchronization means that no 2 threads of processes can
        manipulate the same data simultaneously. Very secure.

What is Framework?
    A.  Frameworks are software development platforms.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
    A. testNG and jUnit.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
    A.  testNG is an improved version of jUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
    A.  mongo-java-driver
        mysql-connector
        testng
        gson
        java-json

what is dependency injection in java?
    ????
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
    A.  Static binding occurs during compile time.
        Dynamic binding occurs during runtime.







